About the size of an egg, it is wrapped in a russet-brown thin skin with short rather stiff hairs. The kaleidoscope-like almost glistening emerald green firm pulp is dotted with a large amount of dark nearly black tiny edible seeds that create this fruit's characteristic interior starburst pattern. Sometimes the flesh may be yellow, brownish or off-white. Sweet tart with a slightly acidic edge, this decorative fruit's succulent flavor is mainly sweet.
It is petite and teardrop shaped with a glossy smooth cranberry hued skin and succulent flesh containing small soft edible seeds. The skin is thin and far too bitter and tannin rich for palatable raw consumption. Its flesh, though, when ripe, is bright, sweet-tart and piquant in flavor.
They are small to medium in size and are round to slightly oblong in shape, growing in medium to large clusters. The hue can vary widely depending on the variety and local growing conditions, but it usually ranges from a light red to a deep burgundy. The thin skin may also contain a dusty film, also known as a bloom, and this layer forms a natural waterproof barrier which prevents the delicate skin from cracking. The translucent flesh is juicy and is considered seedless, though a few small undetectable and undeveloped seeds may be present. They are firm, crisp, and sweet with a mild, neutral flavor.
They generally share the same cylindrical shape with tapered ends, but they can vary in size, measuring up to 12 inches long and weighing up to about one pound. The relatively smooth skin can range in color from white to golden-brown or copper-red to purple, and the dense flesh can be firm or soft, varying from white to yellow or orange, or even mauve to deep magenta-purple. In general, varieties with white flesh have a firmer and drier texture, while orange-fleshed varieties are soft and moist. They offer a sugary-sweet flavor with earthy undertones and hints of nuttiness, with some varieties being sweeter than others.
They are petite, round to slightly oblong fruits with smooth and velvety skin. The skin often has a rosy blush, and can range in color from pale yellow, to golden, to a burnt orange, depending on the variety and how ripe they are. The flesh is smooth, juicy, tender, and sweet, with just a bit of tartness at the end. The flavor is often described as being somewhere between a peach and a plum. They are classified as stone fruits or drupes, characterized by their thin skin, pulpy middle, and single, hard, central shell enclosing a pit or stone.
It has a light-yellow to light-green skin, streaked with purple vertical striping. The flesh, when ripe is golden yellow with a narrow seed cavity. It is entirely edible: skin, flesh, pulp and seeds. The yellow interior is fine-grained and sweetly aromatic, intensifying as it ripens. Its flavor can be described as a mix of banana and pear, with a slightly bitter bite. Its size is inconsistent and can be as small as a plum or as large as a papaya. For optimum sweetness it should be picked at peak of ripeness. Care must be taken when handling them as once ripe they are delicate and easily prone to bruising.
The fruit may be greenish-yellow, orange or crimson, are oval-shaped and usually 1 - 2 inches long. The soft, flexible exterior shell is covered in stiff, hair-like bristles. While the exterior makes it seem larger than the lychee, the inner fruit is actually smaller. Its flesh is juicy, milky- white, translucent in color, with a grape-like, gelatinous texture surrounding a central seed with and almond-like taste. The flavor is more acidic than the lychee, sweet and very aromatic.
They are oblong and small to medium in size, averaging 20-25 centimeters in length, and have a bulbous base that tapers slightly to the stem. The outer skin is glossy, smooth, and ranges in color from lavender to a deep purple. The inner flesh is firm, white or ivory with barely visible, edible seeds patterned throughout. When cooked, they are tender and creamy with a rich flavor.
It is medium to large in size with a round, bulbous stem averaging 7-10 centimeters in diameter and long leafy greens growing directly from the stem. The swollen stem’s skin is pale green, firm, and smooth, covered by two layers of rosette-shaped, dark green leaves. Underneath the skin, the flesh is bright white, aqueous, dense, and crisp with a faint, cabbage-like scent. It is juicy and crunchy with a mild, peppery, and sweet flavor reminiscent of broccoli, cabbage, and cucumber.
They have a pebbly skin that ripens from green to deep purple or nearly black, and they can vary in size from 5 to 12 ounces. Although the skin is thick, it is relatively easy to peel. The flesh closest to the skin is pale green, and as it nears the medium-sized central stone it develops a yellow undertone. The flesh is soft, creamy, and barely fibrous, with good oil content. The flavor is rich and nutty with a slightly sweet finish.
They are elongated, oval to spherical fruits that are somewhat uniform in appearance with smooth, curved edges. The skin is firm, glossy, and thin, ripening from green to bright red when mature. Underneath the surface, the flesh is crunchy, aqueous, and red, encasing a central cavity filled with edible, cream-colored seeds suspended in clear liquid. They are known for their high sugar and water content, creating a juicy consistency with a sweet and savory flavor.
They are medium to large in size and are globular in shape with rounded or slightly tapered ends. The bulb is encased in a bright white, papery, parchment-like skin that is flaky, dry, and thin. Underneath the skin, the white, almost translucent flesh is firm, crisp, and juicy with many layers of thin white rings. They are crunchy and tender with a pungent, mildly sweet flavor and have a mellow, non-abrasive aftertaste.
They are oblong in shape with a pale to dark green skin, though they occasionally have a yellow blush. The color can be misleading, and the only real way to determine whether they are ripe is by touch. The skin should give slightly to the touch, and even then it could rest for a few more days. They are fiber-free with a thin seed, allowing for a greater amount of smooth-textured, orange-yellow flesh. They have a tangy sweet flavor with a hint of honey.
tHEY are small to medium in size and are round to slightly oval in shape, growing in tight or loose clusters depending on the variety. The skin ranges from yellow-green to bright green and is typically crisp, firm, and smooth. The flesh is pale green, semi-translucent, and seedless, though some seedless varieties may have a few underdeveloped seeds that are undetectable when consumed. They are mild and sweet with a slightly tart flavor.
They have a rounded, classic peach shape. Their outer skin is light golden yellow with cream-colored tones when ripe. The skin is smooth and typically free of hair. The inner flesh is somewhat lighter than the outer skin and is very firm, crisp, and slightly juicy. Known for their high sugar content, it offers an aromatic scent and exceptionally sweet flavor.
They are medium to large in size, averaging thirty centimeters in diameter and thirty-eight centimeters in length, and are oval to oblong in shape with many layers of protective shell. The dark brown husk, also known as the mesocarp, is thick, fibrous, dense, and firm. This outer shell is very similar in appearance to a mature one seen on the tree. Underneath the husk, a grey-brown, inedible shell surrounds the core known as the endocarp and has three germination pores or eyes on the stem-end. Inside the endocarp, a very thin layer of oil and white meat surrounds a thick, sponge-like flesh that has a yellow, grooved exterior and a pure white interior. The flesh has a crisp, lightweight, and tender texture, similar to the crunch of an Asian pear or wax apple, but contains a snap-like quality that quickly dissipates into a soft, melting consistency. They have a faint, musky aroma and a tangy, subtle salinity, with a mild and savory taste mixed with a light sweetness similar to angel food cake.
They have a thick signature-yellow peel when ripe, encasing their soft, cream-colored, semi-starchy flesh. Their flavor can vary, having hints of lemon custard to crème brûlée, as they become sweeter as they ripen. Hence, some people wait to eat them until after their yellow peel becomes flecked with brown. The plant itself isn’t a tree, but rather the largest herb in the world. They grow in hanging clusters, called bunches, from these tall plants that can reach over 20 feet tall.
They are medium in size, averaging eight centimeters in diameter, and are short, squat, and egg-shaped with a wide base that gradually tapers to a rounded top with a thick, dark-brown stem. The skin is bright green, smooth, firm, and is covered in lenticels or pores and some rose blush on the side most exposed to the sun. The flesh is white to cream-colored, dense, and buttery with a slightly gritty texture. When ripe, they are juicy and soft with subtle, sweet flavors and notes of lemon and lime.
They are medium to large in size and are long and slender with a slightly curved shape. The smooth skin has a yellow-green base with red blushing, freckling, and brown russeting connecting to a thick, light-brown stem. The white flesh is semi-crisp with a melting, velvety consistency and the entire fruit is edible, including the seedbed. Theyare aromatic and very sweet with rich notes of honey.
They are smaller than the common fruit, standing only four to 5 inches tall. The fronds extending from the crown are only 2 inches longer and are sharp and covered in spikes. These mini fruits have a fragrant golden orange skin and juicy, bright yellow flesh. They are sweeter and more aromatic than their larger counterparts.
They are medium to large in size and are the only pears that have a true pyriform, or pear shape, which has a rounded large bottom half and tapers to a smaller curved neck with a light brown, slender stem. The skin brightens as it ripens, transforming from green to a golden yellow, and is smooth, firm, and thick with some blushing and russeting. The flesh is aromatic, moist, cream-colored to ivory, and is fine-grained encasing a central core containing a few small, black-brown seeds. When mature but not fully ripe, They are crunchy, tart, and slightly gritty, but when fully ripe, they develop a juicy, smooth, buttery texture with a sweet flavor.
They grow on low creeping shrubs or tall erect bushes, depending upon variety. The small round berries can range in size from 5-16 millimeters in diameter. They first appear green, but ripen into a deep shade of dusty blue. The soft, hazy white coating that develops on the skins' surface, which is known as the bloom, is a natural waterproofing which helps protect the berries from the sun and other natural elements. They have a sweet and woodsy flavor with an acidity that can vary depending upon growing conditions. Long sunny days and warm temperatures develop a higher sugar content, while cooler temperatures and shorter days with limited sunlight increase acidity. After harvest some plants lose their leaves while other varieties retain their foliage year-round, becoming a colorful mix bronze, red and purple in the autumn.
They are distinguished by their shape, their fuzz-free skin and the fruits' sub acid, high sugar content. Their shape is roughly rounded and squat with a sunken center at its stem end. The fruit's skin is thin and flushed with tones of rouge, ivory and rose. When ripe, the creamy flesh is perfumed with confectionery aromatics, extremely juicy and tender-firm with a delicate melting quality. Its flavor has a rich syrup-like sweetness, unmatched by other white varieties.
The fruits grow in clusters. They ripen within a month from green to brilliant orange. Once mature, the fruit can reach up to 2 inches in length. Unlike citruses, the entire fruit is edible, although the few seeds buried in the flesh are recommended to be spared. The peel is where the true citrus sweetness lies in both aroma and flavor. The flesh offers a bold and juicy tart contrast, making for a sweet tart mouthful. Before disposing of or simply eating, consider saving the seeds, as they are a source of natural pectin.
They are curious-looking fruits that grow on short trunked, densely branched, evergreen trees. They appear along branches and near the leaf joints following small, red stemmed, lilac and purple flowers. The fruits are oblong, maturing from a dark or light green to an orangey-yellow and have 5 (sometimes 6) ribs, or wings that are sometimes tipped with green. They range in size from 6 to 15 centimeters long and up to 9 centimeters wide. Beneath the thin and waxy skin is a yellow flesh that is juicy and crisp when fully ripe. Immature fruits are sour. When cut lengthwise into slices the resulting shape is that of a star. Most fruits will contain up to 12 tiny, flat, brown seeds. Ripe fruits will have a honeyed, tropical aroma, as well as sweet-tart tasting notes of plum and grape. The entire fruit is edible including skin and seeds.
They are golden-yellow, characterized by their meaty texture and larger size that lends itself to slicing. They have thick skin and succulent, meaty, and very weighty flesh, as they naturally have a high water content. They produce the large fruit, each weighing up to one pound, along upright sprawling vines, which is why they are often recommended for caging or staking. They are rather sweet, and often taste milder and less acidic than red ones because the different pigments in various colored varieties produce different balances of sugars and acids. So it’s this unique combination of sugar and acid levels, as well as other compounds, that accounts for the milder taste, and it does not necessarily mean that it is less acidic than their red counterpart.
It has all the trademark characteristics of the ideal cherry. They have a rounded heart-shape, glossy firm skin that snaps with each bite, and an intense red flesh that will stain to the touch. It has a well balanced sweetness with rich complex flavors of dried spice and sugar and a perfectly sweet tart blackberry-like finish. Though when fully ripe their deep maroon coloring is more like that of a black cherry, it has been compared to the common red Bing cherry in quality and flavor.
They vary in size, typically averaging 3-7 centimeters in diameter, and have a globular to ovate shape with a small taproot extending from the non-stem end. The firm skin is dark red to purple and is semi-smooth with tiny root hairs, russet, and scrapes covering the surface. Each one varies in texture and shape depending on growing conditions. Underneath the surface, the flesh is a deep crimson and is dense, aqueous, and crunchy. When cooked, Theydevelop a tender, soft texture with a mildly sweet, earthy flavor. The plant also grows leafy stalks that are edible and have a taste similar to swiss chard.
They are medium to large in size, averaging seven centimeters in length and five centimeters in diameter, and are bulbous, square, and globular in shape with 3-4 lobes and a thick green stem. The smooth skin is firm, glossy, and bright green with thick-walled, pale-green flesh that is juicy, crisp, and succulent. Inside the flesh, there is a hollow cavity that contains very small, cream-colored seeds and a thin membrane. They are crunchy with a grassy, mildly bitter taste.
They are a small variety approximately the size of a large cherry. They have thick, dark blue, bloomy skins that are rich in acrid tasting tannins. The interior has a low flesh to seed ratio, with a somewhat dry texture. The greenish-gold tinted, translucent pulp is tart and more fibrous than conventional fruits found in typical grocery stores. Clearly not meant for a raw snack, these fruits cook down into a rich and silky jam with hints of spice and bramble berries.
They are small in size, averaging 6-8 centimeters in length and 3-5 centimeters in diameter, and are oblong and elongated in shape with a very lightweight, hollow feel. The firm rind is brittle, smooth, and thick, initially appearing green and then transforming into an orange-yellow hue covered in light tan to white specks with maturity. Underneath the rind, the fruit is filled with a mucilaginous, pale white to almost clear pulp that encases many small, flat black seeds. They are aromatic with a slippery, moist, and smooth texture layered over a crunchy center, and have a bright, sweet, and mildly tart, fruity flavor.
they are medium to large in size, averaging 9-12 centimeters in diameter, and are round to oblate in shape. The smooth, pale yellow skin is speckled with prominent oil glands, is semi-thick, and firm to the touch. Underneath the skin, the flesh is tender, juicy, generally seedless, pale pink to red, and is divided into 12-14 segments by thin membranes. They are aromatic and sweet with floral undertones, balanced in flavor with low, tangy acidity.
It is a small, oval to round shaped fruit, approximately two to three inches in diameter at maturity. The fruit's skin is smooth, yet dimpled and at peak maturity can be heavily wrinkled. The skin's color varies with hues of dark purple and red. Below the skin is a cottony white peel. The interior seed cavity is filled with edible yellow to green jelly and medium sized black seeds. Its pulp is highly aromatic and has a tropical sweet tart flavor with nuances of pineapple, papaya, mango, citrus and guava.
They are small in size, measuring 5-7 centimeters in height and 4-6 centimeters in diameter, and are globular to oblong in shape. The rind, also known as the peel, is thin, smooth and slightly bumpy with many small oil glands visible across the surface, and glossy green transitioning into a yellow hue with maturity. Underneath the rind, the flesh is soft, juicy, pale green, seedless or may contain a few small inedible seeds, and is divided into 10-12 sections by thin white membranes. Depending on the variety, they have an aromatic, floral scent with an acidic, tangy, and bright flavor with notes of pine and spice.
Recognizable for its deep red flesh color and exceptional flavor, the nearly smooth skin ofit sports a characteristic dark pink pretty blush. Having one to six seeds, inside is an intense deep rich red flesh that delivers an absolutely delicious sweet-tart flavor. The redder the flesh, the sweeter the taste.
They are medium-sized fruits, measuring 7 to 9 centimeters in diameter, and have a round, flat shape with a dimpled center at each end. Their thin skins are yellow or orange and flushed with hues of ivory, rose, and rouge covered with a velvety finish. They have white flesh that is soft and juicy, surrounding a non-clinging, easy to remove, pit. They are low in acid with a candy-like sweetness and notes of almond.
They grow in clusters of 25 to 35 on indeterminate, vining plants. They are small, only one inch by one inch in size. They broad shoulders tapering to a blunt point. The deep red skin is glossy and smooth, with the occasional appearance of indentations. They are sweet and juicy, with a high sugar content, and the flesh is thick with a meaty texture.
They grow in pairs within round spiky green flowers, also known as catkins. The hard, thin-shelled nuts are a shiny brown and measure between 3 and 4 centimeters in diameter. Each nut has one flattened side, where it was pressed against the second seed as it developed. The flesh is a creamy white with a firm, crisp texture. They have a starchy, meaty texture when boiled or roasted and have a mild and slightly sweet flavor.
It is defined by two elements: its roughly netted stone and green colored skin and its aromatic orange-coral colored flesh. When perfectly ripe, the flesh is juicy, unctuous and sweet. It will feel heavy versus hollow, a weightiness which is an indicator of its water content. The ripe fruit releases its trademark floral musky aroma. It should yield just slightly to finger pressure at its blossom end, which is opposite of its scarred end, where it was removed from the stem. Like other melons, the flesh bears a central seed cavity. It is unique to other melons in both fragrance and its flesh's texture. Most melons simply do not have the same dense and sticky flesh that it does.
They are small to medium in size, averaging 5-10 centimeters in diameter, and are globular, oblate, or oval in shape. The rind ranges in color from orange, yellow, to green and is smooth with a leathery texture, dotted with many small oil glands across the surface that produce fragrant essential oil. Underneath the rind, there is a thin layer of white pith that is bitter and spongy. The flesh is juicy, also ranges in color from red, orange, to yellow, is filled with tightly packed pulp and juice sacs, and is divided into 10-14 segments by thin membranes. The flesh, depending on the variety, may also contain a few cream-colored seeds. They are aromatic, juicy, and vary in flavor from sweet, acidic, tart, to sour.
They have an overall conical heart shape and can vary in size depending upon cultivar and growing conditions. All varieties have seeds on their exterior rather than their interior, which distinguishes them from a berry and a true fruit. They have a bright red sheen when fully ripe and a juicy yet firm texture. While sugar contents can vary from sweet-tart to candy-like syrup, they maintain a balanced acidity level.
It was once the gold standard cultivar in California. It is considered a medium to large fruit that can weigh up to one pound. Its shape is elongated and pear-like. Its smooth thin skin is easy peeling and it has a deep grass color with some dark speckling. Its flesh is thick, yellow and marginally oily. It has a rich, creamy flavor with notes of hazelnuts and a clean, grassy finish.
It is petite, bright orange in appearance with a glossy, leathery peel rich with essential oils. When punctured or zested the peel reveals bright citrus aromatics. The skin clings loosely to its segmented flesh allowing for easy peeling. Its flesh is juicy, superbly sweet and generally seedless.
They are medium-sized fruits, measuring an average of 4 centimeters in diameter, with deep red to maroon-colored skin. The plump fruits are very round and slightly heart-shaped with the characteristic vertical suture running from stem to end. They have a firm, blood red flesh with a crisp, juicy texture. They are semi-freestone, so the flesh clings only slightly to the central pit. They offer a mildly sweet taste with no acidity.
Varying in color from deep blue to purple or almost black, the large round fruit grows in loose clusters on sturdy climbing vines. A powdery film, or bloom, develops on the skin’s surface which provides a natural waterproofing and also prevents cracking. The berries’ thick, tannin-rich skin offers a pleasant chewiness against the juicy and almost gelatinous inner pulp. The seedy flesh is almost translucent with a slight green tinge and is both tangy and rich. Its unique sweet musky flavor is sometimes described as “foxy”.
They are round fruits that range in size from 5 to 9 centimeters in diameter. They are distinguished by a downy fuzz covering their thin skins. The fruits mature from green to yellow and then orange with deep red blushing on the side facing the sun. The deep orange flesh is aromatic and juicy and may or may not cling to the hard, almond-shaped central stone. They offer a sweet flavor, balancing sugar and acid for a well-rounded flavor.
They are medium to large in size and are oblong in shape with a rounded bottom that gradually tapers to an elongated neck and a slender green-brown stem. The thick skin is golden tan and is covered in rough, brown russeting with some mottling. The ivory to off-white flesh is firm, dense, and crisp with an intense honeyed aroma and has a central, soft core encasing a few small black-brown seeds. When ripe, they are juicy, crunchy, and have a very sweet flavor with notes of woodsy spice.
They are large, somewhat uniform tubers with an oval, round, to oblong shape. The skin is thin, smooth, and light yellow to beige, covered in small, shallow eyes and brown spots. Underneath the surface, the flesh ranges in color from golden yellow to white, depending on cultivation, and is dense, waxy, high in moisture, and low in starch. They hold their shape well when cooked and have a mild, earthy, and neutral flavor.
They are medium to large in size, averaging seven centimeters in length and five centimeters in diameter, and are rounded, square, and globular in shape with 3-4 lobes and a thick green stem. The smooth skin is firm, glossy, and pale green when young transforming to bright orange when mature. Underneath the skin, the pale orange flesh is thick, juicy, crisp, and succulent, with a hollow cavity that contains very small, flat cream-colored seeds and a thin membrane. They are crunchy with a sweet taste.
They are large, round to oblong fruits with thick, bright yellow rinds. They are about 8 centimeters long and 4 centimeters wide. The skin is smooth and may be covered in light yellow specks. Mature fruits will be wrinkled and soft to the touch. Inside is a soft white pith and a large hollow cavity filled with brown, edible seeds encased in bright yellow, gelatinous pulp. The pulp has an intensely sweet, floral aroma with an acidic taste and tropical flavor.
They resemble a small football-shaped watermelon. Its flesh is pale green to white in color and has a succulent texture with a mildly sweet flavor. The color of its hard shell will be varying shades of green and yellow depending upon variety. Typically the brighter the yellow of the melon rind, the riper and sweeter it is. Its exterior skin is wrinkled, a distinguishing feature. Its fragrance is subtle as a result of its thick skin. Unlike many other melons, it will not release a signifying aroma when ripe. The ripest fruits will have a soft blossom end that yields to gentle pressure and its skin will be a vibrant yellow hue.
They are a hybrid citrus. The outer skin is a deep orange with an easy to peel rind. It has a orange inner flesh, that is very juicy and offers a unique taste. They offer a slightly acidic flavor with sweet citrus notes.
They are elongated and have an asymmetrical shape. The skin is a vivid green covered in a pinkish blush which becomes a deeper shade of red where the fruit was exposed to more sun. They have a crunchy texture and a tart taste with a sweet finish. The white flesh is juicy and crisp, and offers a “fizz-like” burst of flavor.
They are oval-round and petite, roughly the size of a walnut, and their leathery skin is covered with tiny spikes. Young fruits start out green, and as they mature, they become blushed with pink and eventually turn a bright red. The pearly-white pulp is covered in juice and houses a dark-brown seed at its center, which can vary in size from 1/2 inch to 1 inch in length, depending on the variety. The firm yet gelatinous pulp is chewy and juicy with a sweet, fruity flavor, like a cross of strawberry and watermelon with a touch of pineapple-like acidity. They are also fragrant with a tropical scent and a hint of roses.
They are large and have a true pyriform shape, with a long neck and bulbous base. They ripen from a yellow-green to an all-over ruby red. The skin is smooth and dotted with lenticels, or pores, indicative of the fruit’s higher sugar content. They are harvested when just mature and ripen to a brilliant red color off the tree. The pear’s cream-colored flesh is fine-grained, crisp and juicy, and offers a sweet taste.
They are large, plump fruits with thin skin that is deep red in color. Their pulpy flesh is the same color as the skin, with a bouquet that has been likened to that of roses. They are full-bodied and non-acidic, with an excellent, robust flavor. The large, regular-leaf, indeterminate plants produce high yields of the eight to twelve ounce fruit in clusters of four to six along vigorous vines with serrated leaves.
They are heavily utilized as a flavoring agent in various forms. The fruit is ovate with pointed ends. Its peel is semi-thick, porous and laden with essential oils. The bright yellow thin outer layer of the peel is very edible and used for multiple applications. When the peel is removed or zested it releases intense sweet citrus aromas. The flesh is translucent yellow and juicy when ripe. Its juice is highly acidic and tart, though extremely versatile in its uses. Depending on variety, they may contain no seeds or numerous seeds.
They are globular fruits, averaging 1 to 2 centimeters in diameter, and are encased in a green to tan, papery husk that forms an inflated, lantern shape. The skin of the fruit is initially waxy and slightly sticky when removed from the husk, giving way to a smooth and taut consistency. The skin also transitions from green to orange-yellow when ripe. Underneath the surface, the flesh is aqueous, soft, yellow-orange, and is filled with many small, crunchy, and edible, cream-colored seeds. They have a sweet-tart flavor that is reminiscent of a cherry tomato crossed with tangy notes of pineapple, mango, vanilla, strawberry, and Meyer lemon.
They are shorter, plumper and heartier than the average banana. It should only be eaten when ripe as an immature one taste's like a dry and chalky starch. When ripe, it will have a thick, brick red peel and ivory-hued semi soft flesh. Its flavor is sweet and creamy with raspberry highlights.
It extremely sweet, seedless, and segmented flesh. Individual fruits may vary in shape and size as well as texture and juiciness. They can be rounded to ovate, with flat bottoms. Their skin is ranges in color from a golden yellow to orange, is pebbled and leathery with a fragrant, thin, and easy to peel rind.
Their hard shell is a light tan color. The skin is vibrant, meat is dark cherry red and the meat itself is a very light colored cream.
They are small in size, averaging 5-7 centimeters in length, and are symmetrical in shape with a rounded, bell-shaped base tapering to a short neck with a slender light green stem. The smooth, thin skin transforms from green to yellow when ripe and is covered in red blushing, crimson lenticels or pores, and has a slightly waxy sheen. The flesh is dense, coarse, moist, and off-white to cream-colored, encasing a few black-brown, tear-drop shaped seeds in a central core. When ripe, they are crisp with sweet and tangy flavors and a hint of cinnamon.
It is a knobby, multiple branched rhizome found in many different shapes and sizes. The skin ranges in color from light to dark tan, depending on the variety, and is semi-rough with occasional callouses and rings ridged along the surface. The thickness of the skin is directly related to whether the rhizome was picked early or mature. Underneath the skin, the flesh is firm, fibrous, and ranges in color from yellow to brown. The rhizome is also highly fragrant with a warm, woody scent. When fresh, it is juicy and crunchy with a pungent, spicy, and slightly sweet taste.
They are small to medium in size, averaging 10-15 centimeters in diameter, and are round to slightly oval in shape. The bulb is wrapped in red-purple thin, papery, parchment-like skin that is delicate and easily flakes off when touched. Underneath the skin, there is a burgundy wine-colored sheath that protects the flesh, and the dark purple flesh is firm, crisp, and coarse with many layers of white and purple rings. They are crunchy, pungent, sweet, and slightly spicy when raw and when cooked their flavor lessens and grows mildly sweeter. The intensity of the pungent flavor varies depending on age, particular variety, and the amount of sulfur in the growing soil or the fertilizer used.
They are yellow-orange, thin-skinned spherical fruits with slightly flattened ends. Each fruit is 5 to 7 centimeters in diameter, with stiff, green glossy leaves on their tops. The pulp is a reddish, sometimes dark bronze color, and each fruit contains between 1 to 8 seeds. The texture of the ripe fruit is juicy, and soft to the point of being mushy. The flavor is rich and sweet, with tasting notes of pear, apricot, and a hint of bourbon vanilla.
They grow on shrubby trees that average between 5 and 8 meters tall. Ranging in color from deep magenta to bright red, the spherical fruits are roughly the size of an apple and have a thin but tough, leathery skin. The interior of the fruit is filled with seeds, technically called arils. The seeds are the edible portion. Each seed is enclosed in a translucent, bright red pulp that offers a sweet-tart taste with notes of cranberry, rhubarb, red currant and concord grape.
They are medium to large in size, averaging seven centimeters in length and five centimeters in diameter, and are rounded, square, and globular in shape with 3-4 lobes and a thick green stem. The smooth skin is firm, glossy, and pale green when young transforming to a bright red when mature. Underneath the skin, the pale red flesh is thick, crisp, and succulent with a hollow cavity that contains very small, flat cream-colored seeds and a thin membrane. They are crunchy and juicy with a very sweet flavor.
They easily differentiate themselves with their shape, fragrance, color and taste. They are ovate yet rounded. Their coloring is a deep brilliant yellow. Their smooth semi-thin peel is fragrant and oily. Their flesh is low acid, aromatic, floral and sweet.
It is made up of tightly bound clusters of florets that form a dense head, similar to that of broccoli. Resembling a classic tree in shape the clusters sprout from stems which are attached to a singular central white trunk. The stems and trunk are firm and tender and the florets have a dense yet soft and crumbly texture. Its flavor is mild with subtle cruciferous and nutty sweet nuances, a taste which is amplified when roasted. The entire thing, its leaves, trunk, stems, and florets are all edible.
They grow on tall, slender trees that can reach anywhere from 5 to 25 feet in height. They are thinner than the more common cavendish bananas and have a cigar-like shape. They grow up to 5 inches long and are roughly half an inch in diameter. They have thin, bright yellow skins that will develop dark flecks when fully ripe. The fruit has a creamy consistency, with a sweeter flavor than common bananas.
They grow on stout woody shrubs approximately 1.5-2 meters tall. The pearl sized berries are loosely clustered in elongated strands and have a somewhat translucent sheen. Their brilliant red skin encases a pulpy flesh that contains 3-12 tiny edible seeds.
They have a bright green skin that is often speckled with faint white lenticels (spots). Medium to large in size and round in shape, they are firm and juicy with thick skin. Their flesh is bright white and crisp in texture with a tart, acidic, yet subtly sweet flavor. If grown in colder climates will often take on a yellow to pink blush.
It is a tropical fruit about the size of a tangerine, averaging five to seven centimeters in diameter. It has a thick, smooth, leathery, burgundy-colored shell with about four to eight flat and woody lobes arranged in a rosette at the apex. Encased in the thick skin are an average of five or six triangular floral-scented segments of white, juicy, soft flesh, which is either seedless or contains just a few flat seeds. The number of lobes at the outer apex of the fruit actually correlates to the number of segments inside. They offer a sweet-tart tropical flavor with notes of lychee, peach, strawberry, pineapple, and caramel or butter.
With its blue-black skin and beet-red flesh. It is a larger than average and typically early ripening. It is a clingstone variety, meaning that the central pit does not cleanly separate away from the flesh. The inky fruit is moderately tart balanced by rich sweet flavors.
It received its name because its coloring is so similar to that of a green apple, with hues of lemon and lime. The fruit is roughly spherical with a furrowed smooth surface. The most alluring element is its fragrance, a bouquet of bright tropical aromatics. The flesh is unique to many fruits, its texture a combination of a firm banana with the succulence of an apple. Tiny edible seeds pattern the flesh's core. The flavor is a reflection of its aromatics, though more subtle with notes of pineapple, papaya, banana and lemon.
It grows on climbing cacti with stems that reach up to 6 meters long. The fruits are oval to oblong in shape, weighing about 8-12 ounces and averaging 10-15 centimeters in length. They have a pink or magenta peel with green scale-like leaves, and white flesh that is dotted with tiny edible black seeds, similar to a kiwi. The juicy, spongy yet dense pulp offers a subtle sweet flavor with notes of berry, pear, kiwi, and watermelon, sometimes with just a hint of sourness.
They widely vary in size, ranging from 15-50 centimeters in length and 10-20 centimeters in diameter, and are oval to elongated in shape. The thin skin is smooth, slightly waxy, and firm with variegated hues of orange, yellow, and green depending on maturity. Underneath the surface, the flesh is crisp, dense, tender, and dark orange with a central seed cavity filled with pale orange membranes and many dark brown seeds. When ripe, they have a creamy and smooth consistency with a tropical, musky, and subtly sweet flavor.
They distinguish themselves from all other cherry varieties by the color of their skin and their unparalleled high sugar levels. Their coloring exhibits layers of golden hues blushed with tones of pink and red, an unequivocally unique facade. Their shape is quintessential cherry: plump, rounded and slightly heart-shaped with a dimple at the stem end. The flesh is a pale golden color with red streaks near the skin and seed. The flavor is memorably sweet and low acid with a caramel-like finish on the palate.
Rich and intensely sweet, it has shiny dark, purplish-black skin. Considered a medium-sized variety, it is smaller than most commercially available cherries which could be a reason for the loss in popularity. It has a deep burgundy flesh that stains lips and fingers. They have a strong flavor reminiscent of herbs, almond and rose that carries through when added to a variety of recipes.
They are a medium to large sized mango variety weighing up to two pounds each. They are broadly oval shaped with a green skin almost always covered with a dark red blush with occasional orange or yellow accents. The smooth skin is covered with small, yellow-green lenticels (pores) that appear like freckles. The skin is thick, protecting the firm, deep yellow flesh during shipping.They are juicy, with a somewhat fibrous flesh, and a mildly sweet taste. The fruit must be lightly squeezed to determine ripeness.
They have the shape of a pinecone, and can reach up to 30 centimeters in length. They have a rough, waxy, hexagonal-patterned rind that is covered in small, soft spikes and topped with a compact grouping of narrow, green, pointed-tipped leaves that extend upright. The rind can range in color from green to yellow or reddish-orange when ripe. The flesh varies in shades of white or yellow, depending on the variety, and modern cultivated varieties are known to be seedless. The loosely fibrous and juicy flesh offers a sweet flavor with mild acidity, while the edible core is firmer, more leathery, and less sweet.
They resemble a large, lumpy yellow pear with skin that may be smooth or covered with a woolly down depending on variety. A characteristic common to all varieties is their strong aromatic fragrance, a musky-wild, tropical-like perfume. Astringent and sour, the flesh cannot be eaten raw and requires cooking to be edible. The fruit becomes a rich candy-like paste when slowly cooked and turns a deep apricot color with floral honeyed flavors.
They are medium to large in size and have a true pyriform, or pear shape, which has a large rounded base that tapers to a smaller curved neck with a light brown stem. The thin skin brightens as it ripens, transforming from green to a golden yellow, and is smooth and firm with some blushing and russeting. The flesh is aromatic, moist, cream-colored to ivory, and is fine-grained encasing a central core containing a few small, black-brown seeds. When mature but not fully ripe, they are crunchy, tart, and slightly gritty, but when fully ripe, they develop a juicy, smooth, buttery texture with a sweet flavor.
They are medium-sized and have a conical shape. They are broadly round at the top and taper at the base. The thick skin turns bright red well before the fruits are fully ripe, which can lead to early harvests. As they mature, the skin becomes a darker red with white lenticels visibly dotting the surface. The fine-grained flesh is creamy white, crisp and juicy and offers a mildly sweet taste with flavors of melon.
They are small to medium in size and are round or oval with a somewhat uniform shape. The thin skin is ruby to deep red and is smooth with some light brown speckling, spots, and indentations. There are also a few medium-set eyes found across the surface of the skin. The flesh is crisp, white, and firm. When cooked, they have a waxy and dense texture and a mild, buttery, and earthy flavor.
They grow in clusters at the base of the Rakum palm, a spine-covered palm that grows in small clumps averaging 3 to 4 meters high. Technically classified as a drupe, the fruits are 2 to 3 centimeters long and ovate with an elongated tapering tip. Their scaly exterior is brownish-orange and slightly rough to the touch. It easily peels away revealing 2 to 3 lobes of juicy white flesh that house hard, brown inedible seeds. While other Snake fruit may by crunchy and mild, this variety is much juicier, softer and bursting with flavors of pineapple, peach and pear.
They are medium to large in size and are oval in shape. The thin, bi-colored skin has a yellow base and is covered with red to pink blush and red striping. The striping and blush will vary in degree of visibility depending on the climate in which the fruit has matured. Its firm flesh is pale yellow to gold and contains a few dark brown seeds in the center of the fibrous core. They are very crisp and juicy with a sweet flavor combined with subtle hints of spice, pear, nutmeg, and cinnamon.
They are not botanically classified as a berry, but rather an aggregate of many tiny fruit clusters arranged around a central stem. They are similar in appearance to an elongated blackberry, although they can ripen to a deep purple, black, red or white, depending on the variety. They have a good balance of sweet and tart flavors, sometimes with a hint of baking spices or woody cedar. The aromatic, deeply colored fruits are fragile and syrupy, and are known to stain at the slightest touch. The productive trees can reach anywhere from 30 to 80 feet tall, and some species can live and produce fruit for centuries.
It is a rounded fruit with a single central groove. Its smooth skin is blushed with hues of ruby, pink and gold throughout. The flesh is perfumed with aromatics, overtly juicy when ripe, and golden colored with red bleeds at the skin and surrounding the central rough pit. A ripe one's texture is soft with a melting quality, its flavors balanced with layers both bright and sweet.
They are small to medium and slightly oblong to round in size. The skin is smooth, matte, and is a deep yellow-green speckled with faint white lenticels, or spots, and light ribbing. The fine-grained flesh is creamy white, crisp, and tender. There is also a tough and fibrous central core that runs the length of the fruit and extends to the base of the long and slender stem. They are juicy and smooth with a sweet flavor with nuances of spice.
